---
layout: docs.njk
title: Concepts
---

### Board

A _board_ is an executable program, expressed declaratively as a graph. Boards
are analogous to a traditional program.

### Nodes

A _node_ is a step in a board that performs some action. This might be calling
an external API, or executing some local computation. Nodes are analogous to
functions in traditional programs.

### Ports

A _port_ is a named input or output of a node. Nodes can have any number of
ports. Ports can be _source ports_ (data flows _out_), or _destination ports_
(data flows _in_). Source ports are analogous to the parameters of a traditional
function. Destination ports are analogous to the results returned by a
traditional function.

### Edges

An _edge_ is a connection between two ports through which data flows. Edges are
analogous to variables in a traditional program.

#### Optional edges

Edges can be _optional_, which means that the execution of a node will not wait
for data to be present before proceeding with execution.

#### Constant edges

Edges can be _constant_, which means the most recent object that flowed through
the edge will remain available indefinitely, instead of being destructively
consumed.

### Kits

A _kit_ is a library that exports node constructors. It is analogous to a
traditional library.

### Slots

Boards can have _slots_, which is Breadboard's way of expressing _inversion of
control_. When a board exposes a slot, it means that users of that board are
expected to provide an implementation for some portion of the graph themselves.

### JSON descriptor

The canonical low-level serialization of a board is its _JSON descriptor_. This
format is described by [this JSON
schema](https://github.com/breadboard-ai/breadboard/blob/main/packages/breadboard/breadboard.schema.json).
A Breadboard JSON descriptor is analogous to a compiled program, like a WASM or
ELF binary, though significantly more human-readable than those formats, and
typically containing much higher-level operations.

### Runtimes

A _runtime_ is a system that executes boards. Current runtimes include: Node,
Python, and Web.

### Frontends

A _frontend_ is a system that generates boards. Current frontends include the
`@google-labs/breadboard` API for Node, the Python `breadboard` library, and the
Breadboard Visual Playground. Boards can also be written by hand directly as
JSON, but using a frontend is typically easier.

Note that frontends are never coupled to a specific runtime. Boards generated by
the Node API can be executed by the Python runtime, and vice-versa.
